# EMA-DD-Data-Tracking-Script---Qualtrics
This is an R Script for automating data tracking of Ecological Momentary Assessment or Daily Diary studies using Qualtrics (or other csv based surveys)


Below is an explanation of an R script I made to help automate the data tracking process for EMA studies. The main use of this script is to help keep track of where participants are in the EMA phase of a study and which motivational messages to send depending on adherence rate. Feel free to use/adjust it for any of your study needs!

This R script is currently adjusted for EMA studies with 4 EMAs and 1 DD across a 28 day period. The R script results in a final csv with each participant's ID, the number of days each participant has been completing EMAs, the number of EMA and DD responses, the adherence rate, and a breakdown of everyday for which EMAs and DDs were completed denoted by 1 for completion and 0 for incompletion.  

You can adjust the time slots in the script and number of EMAs as needed to match your study. Instructions on what to manually adjust (i.e., data csvs of your surveys and a master csv with each participant's id, time zone, and starting date) are labeled in the script. This script currently accommodates qualtrics surveys, but can be adjusted for any type of survey that can be downloaded as a CSV. If you are using a survey from a different platform, double check the headings downloaded in the CSV to determine if the read_svy function is needed (if not, you can use read.csv instead). 

I made this script to (1) accommodate a survey per each EMA design (i.e., 1 CSV per EMA survey) and (2) track data a day behind it is collected; however, if you want to adjust the script so that it only takes one overall csv with each person's survey responses throughout the day you can just remove the part of the script that binds each individual survey csv together and instead read in the overall csv. If you want to adjust it so that it tracks data up to the time that you downloaded the CSVs you can remove the "yesterday_date" logic and count surveys without filtering dates ahead of that date. Because the script is built for qualtrics surveys, the default timezone is MT (Qualtrics' default time zone). If all participants are in the same time zone and the survey platform used does not default to a specific time zone, removing the time zone logic and instead using local system dates will suffice for the calculation of number of days since each participant's starting date. 

If you find any issues or edge cases please feel free to let me know so I can adjust it :)
